NAME

    rtv2kml.pl - Create a Google Earth .kml file for Australian Ratio and TV
    Transmitters

SYNOPSIS

        rtv2kml.pl [--help|-h] [--towers|-t] [--bytype|b]
                   [--state=state|-s state] csv_files...

DESCRIPTION

    Takes the Excel spreadsheets from the ACMA Radio and Television
    Broadcasting Book (<http://acma.gov.au/WEB/STANDARD/pc=PC_9150>) in CSV
    (Comma Separated Variable) format, and produces placemarks for all the
    licensed TV and radio broadcasting stations listed in the spreadsheets
    on its standard output. Standard output would normally be redirected to
    a file.

    At each placemark a simple representation of the tower is drawn, and the
    antennas at each site are rtepresented by a horizontal cross. The
    orientation of the cross is arbitrary, it does not indicate the
    orientation of directional antennas.

    The --towers option further simplifies the display of the tower to be a
    single line drawn from the ground to 3 metres above the top antenna.

    Each placemark has a *LookAt* attribute that sets the viewpoint to 1km
    south of the antenna and 20 degrees above it when you doubleclick on the
    placemark.

    The placemark popup lists the stations broadcasting from the site:

        ABC9A Canberra 205.625MHz (9A) 50.0kW (V, OD, h: 177m)

    fields are: callsign/channel ("ABC9A"), area served ("Canberra"),
    frequency ("205.625MHz"), channel ("9A"), power ("50.0kW"), polarisation
    ("V"), antenna directionality ("OD") and antenna height ("177m").

    Power is the effective radiated power, in the direction of maximum
    radiation for directional antennas. For mixed polarisation, it is the
    maximum power for each polariation plane.

    Polarisation is "V" for vertical, "H" for horizontal and "M" for mixed.
    To recieve horizontal polarisation, the antenna elements should be
    horizontal and vertical for vertical polarisation. In some locations VHF
    (longer antenna elements) broadcasts are on a different polarisation
    from UHF (short antenna elements).

    Antennas may be omnidirectional ("OD") or directional ("D"). The Radio
    and Television Broadcasting Book does not indicate the direction(s) of
    maximum radiated power for directional antennas.

    The popup also gives the site name at the bottom of the panel:

        Telecom Tower BLACK MOUNTAIN

DATA PREPARATION

    The data in the Radio and Television Broadcasting Book Excel spreadsheet
    must be converted into Excel CSV (Comma Separated Variable) format to
    use in this program.

    You need only convert those sheets from the Book whose data you are
    interested in, for example you may only want to view the DTV (Digital
    TV) sheet.

    To convert, load the spreadsheet into Excel, click on the tab for the
    sheet you want to convert, and then select "File>Save As...". In the
    file browser, select "CSV (Comma Delimited) *.csv" in "Save as type:",
    set the file name, then click "Save".

    Click "OK" in the warning box saying thet "the selected file type does
    not support workbooks", and click "Yes" in the warning box that says
    that the spreadsheet may contain features not supported by the CSV file
    format.

    Repeat this procedure, using different file names, for each sheet of the
    spreadsheet you want to convert.

    NB: There is nothing in the TV and DTV CSV files that allows *rtv2kml*
    to distinguish the data of the analog and digital transmitters. However,
    if the TV and DTV data is saved into files whose names contain the
    strings "AnalogTV" and "DigitalTV" respectively, then the ".kml" files
    will hold the placemarks for analog and digital TV in separte folders
    ("Analog TV" and "Digital TV"). For example, you might call the files
    "DigitalTVTransmitters.csv" and "AnalogTVTransmitters.csv". Otherwise,
    all TV transmitters that can't be recognised from the file name is
    placed in a "TV" folder.

ARGUMENTS

    *Rtv2kml* takes the following option:

    help
          --help
          -h

        Print a help message and exit.

    towers
          --towers
          -t

        Draw a simpler representation of the towers that results in a
        smaller file (about 50% smaller).

    bytype
          --bytype
          -t

        Split radio and TV services into separate folders at the top level.

    state
          --state=state
          -s state

        Only include transmitters in the given state in the output. *State*
        may be one of ACT, NSW, NT, QLD, SA, TAS, VIC or WA. Case is not
        distinguished. The full state names may also be used; if they have
        spaces they must be quoted (and Western Australia not West
        Australia) but there probably isn't much reason to do that. Repeated
        --state options may be used to include more than one state (e.g.
        --state act --state NSW).

        Using a state specifier to only select the state you are interested
        in can also produce a significantly smaller *.kml* file.

PREREQUSITES

    Google Earth 4.x for viewing the ".kml" file in context.

BUGS

    The Radio and Television Broadcasting Book only specifies locations of
    transmitters to the nearest second of arc. While that sounds small, it
    actually allows for an error of about +-50 metres.

    The Abridged Molodenskiy transformation used to transform the AGD66
    latitudes & longitudes of the ACMA data to the WGS84 latitudes and
    longitudes used by Google Earth adds about another 10m uncertainty.

    The transformation accuracy varies across Australia, and can be quite
    inaccurate outside outside the mainland and Tasmania. The location
    errors for the Lord Howe Island sites are about 130m. The Lord Howe
    Island South site is shown *in the water* which is unlikely to be
    correct! It's not clear how much of the location error is in the
    coordinate transformation and the lack of precision in the lat/long, and
    how much is actual location inaccuracy.

    AM transmitters are typically not a single transmitter tower, they are
    more usually two towers with a horizontal antenna wire between them (and
    consequently horizontal polarisation), and the antenna wire is about
    100-150m long. The "tower" shown by *rtv2kml* is usually located near
    the midpoint of the antenna wire, between its two physical towers. AM
    transmitter towers are often much narrower than TV broadcast towers, and
    can often be best seen by their shadow.

